---
source: https://developers.google.com/workspace/add-ons/reference/rpc/google.apps.script.type/calendar
root: workspace
fetched_at: 2026-04-23T15:23:04.460Z
---

# Package google.apps.script.type.calendar

## Page Summary

- The `CalendarAddOnManifest` defines the properties, triggers, and data access levels for Google Calendar add-ons.
- Add-ons can define triggers to execute functions when events are opened, updated, or when users interact with attachments.
- Conference solutions can be integrated within add-ons, providing functionalities like creating conference data with a specified endpoint.
- `CalendarExtensionPoint` and `ConferenceSolution` further detail how add-ons can extend Calendar's features with specific functionalities and triggers.
- Different levels of data access, ranging from metadata to read-write permissions, can be defined for event triggers in add-ons using `EventAccess`.

## CalendarAddOnManifest

Properties customizing the appearance and execution of a Calendar add-on.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>homepageTrigger</code></td><td><p>Optional. Defines an endpoint that is executed in contexts that don't match a declared contextual trigger. Any cards generated by this function will always be available to the user, but might be eclipsed by contextual content when this add-on declares more targeted triggers.</p><p>If present, this overrides the configuration from <code>addOns.common.homepageTrigger</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>conferenceSolution[]</code></td><td><p><code>ConferenceSolution</code></p><p>Optional. Defines conference solutions provided by this add-on.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>createSettingsUrlFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>An endpoint to execute that creates a URL to the add-on's settings page.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>eventOpenTrigger</code></td><td><p><code>CalendarExtensionPoint</code></p><p>An endpoint that triggers when an event is opened to be viewed or edited.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>eventUpdateTrigger</code></td><td><p><code>CalendarExtensionPoint</code></p><p>An endpoint that triggers when the open event is updated.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>calendarNotificationTrigger</code></td><td><p><code>CalendarExtensionPoint</code></p><p>Optional. Triggers when an event is created or updated for a calendar that the user is subscribed to. Applies only to triggers created by <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/add-ons/guides/alternate-runtimes"><code>HTTP
                  endpoints</code></a> using <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/add-ons/reference/rpc/apps.extensions.markup#apps.extensions.markup.CalendarClientActionMarkup.CalendarSubscriptionActionMarkup"><code>CalendarSubscriptionActionMarkup</code></a>. Not applicable to <code>Apps Script add-ons</code> and <a href="https://developers.google.com/apps-script/guides/triggers/installable"><code>Apps Script installable
                  triggers</code></a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>eventAttachmentTrigger</code></td><td><p>A configuration for a contextual trigger that fires when the user clicks on the add-on attachment provider in the Calendar dropdown menu.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>currentEventAccess</code></td><td><p><code>EventAccess</code></p><p>Defines the level of data access when an event add-on is triggered.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## EventAccess

An enum that defines the level of data access event triggers require.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Enums</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>UNSPECIFIED</code></td><td>Default value when nothing is set for eventAccess.</td></tr><tr><td><code>READ</code></td><td>Gives event triggers access to all provided event fields including the metadata, attendees, and conference data.</td></tr><tr><td><code>WRITE</code></td><td>Gives event triggers access to the metadata of events and the ability to perform all actions, including adding attendees and setting conference data.</td></tr><tr><td><code>READ_WRITE</code></td><td>Gives event triggers access to all provided event fields including the metadata, attendees, and conference data and the ability to perform all actions.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## CalendarExtensionPoint

Common format for declaring a calendar add-on's triggers.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The endpoint to execute when this extension point is activated.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## ConferenceSolution

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>onCreateFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The endpoint to call when conference data should be created.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>id</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. IDs should be uniquely assigned across conference solutions within one add-on, otherwise the wrong conference solution might be used when the add-on is triggered. While you can change the display name of an add-on, the ID shouldn’t be changed.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>name</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The display name of the conference solution.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
