---
source: https://developers.google.com/workspace/add-ons/reference/rpc/google.apps.script.type/gmail
root: workspace
fetched_at: 2026-04-23T15:23:04.670Z
---

# Package google.apps.script.type.gmail

## Page Summary

- This documentation outlines the schema for Gmail add-ons, including triggers and actions.
- It covers several trigger types like `ComposeTrigger`, `ContextualTrigger`, and `UnconditionalTrigger` which define when the add-on activates.
- `GmailAddOnManifest` describes the add-on's overall configuration, including triggers, homepage behavior, and universal actions.
- Universal actions, defined by `UniversalAction`, are always available in the add-on toolbar, allowing users to perform actions like opening links or running functions.
- Developers can control data access levels and customize user interface elements through various fields and properties within these schemas.

## ComposeTrigger

A trigger that activates when user is composing an email.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>actions[]</code></td><td><p>Defines the set of actions for a compose time add-on. These are actions that users can trigger on a compose time add-on.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>draftAccess</code></td><td><p><code>DraftAccess</code></p><p>Defines the level of data access when a compose time add-on is triggered.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## DraftAccess

An enum that defines the level of data access the compose trigger requires.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Enums</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>UNSPECIFIED</code></td><td>Default value when nothing is set for draftAccess.</td></tr><tr><td><code>NONE</code></td><td>The compose trigger can't access any data of the draft when a compose add-on is triggered.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## ContextualTrigger

Defines a trigger that fires when the open email meets a specific criteria. When the trigger fires, it executes a specific endpoint, usually in order to create new cards and update the UI.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>onTriggerFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The name of the endpoint to call when a message matches the trigger.</p></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Union field <code>trigger</code>. The type of trigger determines the conditions Gmail uses to show the add-on. <code>trigger</code> can be only one of the following:</td></tr><tr><td><code>unconditional</code></td><td><p><code>UnconditionalTrigger</code></p><p>Unconditional triggers are executed when any mail message is opened.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## GmailAddOnManifest

Properties customizing the appearance and execution of a Gmail add-on.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>homepageTrigger</code></td><td><p>Defines an endpoint that will be executed in contexts that don't match a declared contextual trigger. Any cards generated by this function will always be available to the user, but may be eclipsed by contextual content when this add-on declares more targeted triggers.</p><p>If present, this overrides the configuration from <code>addOns.common.homepageTrigger</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>contextualTriggers[]</code></td><td><p><code>ContextualTrigger</code></p><p>Defines the set of conditions that trigger the add-on.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>universalActions[]</code></td><td><p><code>UniversalAction</code></p><p>Defines a set of <a href="https://developers.google.com/gmail/add-ons/how-tos/universal-actions">universal actions</a> for the add-on. The user triggers universal actions from the add-on toolbar menu.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>composeTrigger</code></td><td><p><code>ComposeTrigger</code></p><p>Defines the compose time trigger for a compose time add-on. This is the trigger that causes an add-on to take action when the user is composing an email. All compose time add-ons must have the <code>gmail.addons.current.action.compose</code> scope even though it might not edit the draft.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>authorizationCheckFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>The name of an endpoint that verifies that the add-on has all the required third-party authorizations, by probing the third-party APIs. If the probe fails, the function should throw an exception to initiate the authorization flow. This function is called before each invocation of the add-on in order to ensure a smooth user experience.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## UnconditionalTrigger

This type has no fields.

A trigger that fires when any email message is opened.

## UniversalAction

An action that is always available in the add-on toolbar menu regardless of message context.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>text</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. User-visible text describing the action, for example, "Add a new contact."</p></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Union field <code>action_type</code>. The type of the action determines the behavior of Gmail when the user invokes the action. <code>action_type</code> can be only one of the following:</td></tr><tr><td><code>openLink</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>A link that is opened by Gmail when the user triggers the action.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>An endpoint that is called when the user triggers the action. See the <a href="https://developers.google.com/gmail/add-ons/how-tos/universal-actions">universal actions guide</a> for details.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
