---
source: https://developers.google.com/workspace/add-ons/reference/rpc/google.apps.script.type
root: workspace
fetched_at: 2026-04-23T15:23:05.065Z
---

# Package google.apps.script.type

## Page Summary

- This documentation details the various message and enum types used for defining Google Workspace add-ons.
- These types are used to configure add-on behavior, including homepage views, universal actions, contextual triggers, and UI elements.
- Developers can leverage these types to customize the appearance, functionality, and extension points of their add-ons across Google Workspace applications.
- The documentation provides definitions and fields for each type, allowing developers to understand their purpose and usage.
- With this reference, developers can create robust and integrated add-ons that enhance user workflows within the Google Workspace ecosystem.

## AddOnWidgetSet

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>usedWidgets[]</code></td><td><p><code>WidgetType</code></p><p>The list of widgets used in an add-on.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## WidgetType

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Enums</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>WIDGET_TYPE_UNSPECIFIED</code></td><td>The default widget set.</td></tr><tr><td><code>DATE_PICKER</code></td><td>The date picker.</td></tr><tr><td><code>STYLED_BUTTONS</code></td><td>Styled buttons include filled buttons and deactivated buttons.</td></tr><tr><td><code>PERSISTENT_FORMS</code></td><td>Persistent forms allow persisting form values during actions.</td></tr><tr><td><code>UPDATE_SUBJECT_AND_RECIPIENTS</code></td><td>Update the subject and recipients of a draft.</td></tr><tr><td><code>GRID_WIDGET</code></td><td>The grid widget.</td></tr><tr><td><code>ADDON_COMPOSE_UI_ACTION</code></td><td>A Gmail add-on action that applies to the add-on compose UI.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## CommonAddOnManifest

Add-on configuration that is shared across all add-on host applications.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>name</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The display name of the add-on.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>layoutProperties</code></td><td><p><code>LayoutProperties</code></p><p>Common layout properties for the add-on cards.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>addOnWidgetSet</code></td><td><p><code>AddOnWidgetSet</code></p><p>The widgets used in the add-on. If this field is not specified, the default set is used.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>useLocaleFromApp</code></td><td><p><code>bool</code></p><p>Whether to pass locale information from host app.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>homepageTrigger</code></td><td><p><code>HomepageExtensionPoint</code></p><p>Defines an endpoint that will be executed in any context, in any host. Any cards generated by this function will always be available to the user, but might be eclipsed by contextual content when this add-on declares more targeted triggers.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>universalActions[]</code></td><td><p><code>UniversalActionExtensionPoint</code></p><p>Defines a list of extension points in the universal action menu which serves as a settings menu for the add-on. The extension point can be a link URL to open or an endpoint to execute as a form submission.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>openLinkUrlPrefixes</code></td><td><p><code>ListValue</code></p><p>An OpenLink action can only use a URL with an <code>HTTPS</code>, <code>MAILTO</code> or <code>TEL</code> scheme. For <code>HTTPS</code> links, the URL must also <a href="https://developers.google.com/gmail/add-ons/concepts/manifests#whitelisting_urls">match</a> one of the prefixes specified in the allowlist. If the prefix omits the scheme, <code>HTTPS</code> is assumed. <code>HTTP</code> links are automatically rewritten to <code>HTTPS</code> links.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## CreateActionExtensionPoint

The configuration for a trigger that fires when a user invokes the resource creation workflow in a Google Workspace application. For more information, see [Create third-party resources from the @ menu](https://developers.google.com/workspace/add-ons/guides/create-insert-resource-smart-chip).

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>id</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The unique ID to differentiate this extension point. The ID can have up to 64 characters and should be in the format of <code>[a-zA-Z0-9-]+</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>labelText</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The text that displays alongside an icon for the resource creation entry point, such as <code>Create support case</code>. This text is static and displays before users execute the add-on.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>localizedLabelText</code></td><td><p><code>map<string, string></code></p><p>Optional. A map of <code>labelText</code> to localize into other languages. Format the language in <a href="https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639_macrolanguage">ISO 639</a> and the country/region in <a href="https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166">ISO 3166</a>, separated by a hyphen <code>-</code>. For example, <code>en-US</code>.</p><p>If a user's locale is present in the map's keys, the user sees the localized version of the <code>labelText</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. Endpoint to execute when a resource creation workflow is triggered to create a link.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## GranularOauthPermissionSupport

Whether the add-on has enabled Granular OAuth Consent.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Enums</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>GRANULAR_OAUTH_PERMISSION_SUPPORT_UNSPECIFIED</code></td><td>Default value, should not be used.</td></tr><tr><td><code>OPT_IN</code></td><td>The add-on is opted in to Granular OAuth Consent.</td></tr><tr><td><code>OPT_OUT</code></td><td>The add-on is opted out of Granular OAuth Consent.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## HomepageExtensionPoint

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The endpoint to execute when this extension point is activated.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>enabled</code></td><td><p><code>BoolValue</code></p><p>Optional. If set to <code>false</code>, deactivates the homepage view in this context.</p><p>Defaults to <code>true</code> if unset.</p><p>If an add-on's custom homepage view is disabled, a generic overview card is provided for users instead.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## HttpAuthorizationHeader

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Enums</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>HTTP_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER_UNSPECIFIED</code></td><td>Default value, equivalent to <code>SYSTEM_ID_TOKEN</code>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SYSTEM_ID_TOKEN</code></td><td>Send an ID token for the project-specific Google Workspace add-on's system service account (default).</td></tr><tr><td><code>USER_ID_TOKEN</code></td><td>Send an ID token for the end user.</td></tr><tr><td><code>NONE</code></td><td>Do not send an Authentication header.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## HttpOptions

Options for sending requests to add-on `HTTP` endpoints.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>authorizationHeader</code></td><td><p><code>HttpAuthorizationHeader</code></p><p>Configuration for the token sent in the <code>HTTP</code> Authorization header.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>granularOauthPermissionSupport</code></td><td><p><code>GranularOauthPermissionSupport</code></p><p>Whether the add-on has enabled Granular OAuth Consent.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## LayoutProperties

Card layout properties shared across all add-on host applications.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>primaryColor</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>The primary color of the add-on. It sets the color of the toolbar. If no primary color is set, the default value provided by the framework is used.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>secondaryColor</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>The secondary color of the add-on. It sets the color of buttons. If the primary color is set but no secondary color is set, the secondary color is the same as the primary color. If neither primary color nor secondary color is set, the default value provided by the framework is used.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>useNewMaterialDesign<br><b>(deprecated)</b></code></td><td><p><code>bool</code></p><p>Enables material design for cards.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## LinkPreviewExtensionPoint

The configuration for a trigger that fires when a user types or pastes a link from a third-party or non-Google service into a Google Docs, Sheets, or Slides file.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>labelText</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The text for an example smart chip that prompts users to preview the link, such as <code>Example: Support case</code>. This text is static and displays before users execute the add-on.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>localizedLabelText</code></td><td><p><code>map<string, string></code></p><p>Optional. A map of <code>labelText</code> to localize into other languages. Format the language in <a href="https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639_macrolanguage">ISO 639</a> and the country/region in <a href="https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166">ISO 3166</a>, separated by a hyphen <code>-</code>. For example, <code>en-US</code>.</p><p>If a user's locale is present in the map's keys, the user sees the localized version of the <code>labelText</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>patterns[]</code></td><td><p><code>UriPattern</code></p><p>Required. An array of URL patterns that trigger the add-on to preview links.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. Endpoint to execute when a link preview is triggered.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## MenuItemExtensionPoint

Common format for declaring a menu item or button that appears within a host app.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. The endpoint to execute when this extension point is activated.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>label</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. User-visible text that describes the action taken by activating this extension point. For example, "Insert invoice."</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## UniversalActionExtensionPoint

Format for declaring a universal action menu item extension point.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>label</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required. User-visible text that describes the action taken by activating this extension point, for example, "Add a new contact."</p></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Union field <code>action_type</code>. Required. The action type supported on a universal action menu item. It can either be a link to open or an endpoint to execute. <code>action_type</code> can be only one of the following:</td></tr><tr><td><code>openLink</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>URL to be opened by the UniversalAction.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>runFunction</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Endpoint to be run by the UniversalAction.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## UriPattern

The configuration for each URL pattern that triggers a link preview.

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>hostPattern</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Required for each URL pattern to preview. The domain of the URL pattern. The add-on previews links that contain this domain in the URL. To preview links for a specific subdomain, like <code>subdomain.example.com</code>, include the subdomain. To preview links for the entire domain, specify a wildcard character with an asterisk (<code>*</code>) as the subdomain.</p><p>For example, <code>*.example.com</code> matches <code>subdomain.example.com</code> and <code>another.subdomain.example.com</code>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>pathPrefix</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Optional. The path that appends the domain of the <code>hostPattern</code>.</p><p>For example, if the URL host pattern is <code>support.example.com</code>, to match URLs for cases hosted at <code>support.example.com/cases/</code>, enter <code>cases</code>.</p><p>To match all URLs in the host pattern domain, leave <code>pathPrefix</code> empty.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
