---
source: https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/reference/rest/v1/subscriptions
root: workspace
fetched_at: 2026-04-23T15:24:40.774Z
---

# REST Resource: subscriptions

## Resource: Subscription

JSON template for a subscription.

JSON representation

```
{
  "customerId": string,
  "subscriptionId": string,
  "skuId": string,
  "creationTime": string,
  "kind": string,
  "seats": {
    object (Seats)
  },
  "renewalSettings": {
    object (RenewalSettings)
  },
  "purchaseOrderId": string,
  "status": string,
  "resourceUiUrl": string,
  "billingMethod": string,
  "suspensionReasons": [
    string
  ],
  "customerDomain": string,
  "dealCode": string,
  "skuName": string,
  "plan": {
    "planName": string,
    "isCommitmentPlan": boolean,
    "commitmentInterval": {
      "startTime": string,
      "endTime": string
    }
  },
  "trialSettings": {
    "isInTrial": boolean,
    "trialEndTime": string
  },
  "transferInfo": {
    "transferabilityExpirationTime": string,
    "minimumTransferableSeats": integer,
    "currentLegacySkuId": string
  }
}
```

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>customerId</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>This property will always be returned in a response as the unique identifier generated by Google. In a request, this property can be either the primary domain or the unique identifier generated by Google.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>subscriptionId</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>The <code>subscriptionId</code> is the subscription identifier and is unique for each customer. This is a required property. Since a <code>subscriptionId</code> changes when a subscription is updated, we recommend not using this ID as a key for persistent data. Use the <code>subscriptionId</code> as described in <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/manage_subscriptions#get_all_subscriptions">retrieve all reseller subscriptions</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>skuId</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>A required property. The <code>skuId</code> is a unique system identifier for a product's SKU assigned to a customer in the subscription. For products and SKUs available in this version of the API, see <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/products">Product and SKU IDs</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>creationTime</code></td><td><p><code>string (int64 format)</code></p><p>The <code>creationTime</code> property is the date when subscription was created. It is in milliseconds using the Epoch format. See an example <a href="http://www.epochconverter.com/">Epoch converter</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>kind</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Identifies the resource as a Subscription. Value: <code>reseller#subscription</code></p></td></tr><tr><td><code>seats</code></td><td><p><code>object (<code>Seats</code>)</code></p><p>This is a required property. The number and limit of user seat licenses in the plan.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>renewalSettings</code></td><td><p><code>object (<code>RenewalSettings</code>)</code></p><p>Renewal settings for the annual commitment plan. For more detailed information, see renewal options in the <a href="https://support.google.com/a/bin/answer.py?topic=1247359&ctx=topic&answer=2500693">administrator help center</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>purchaseOrderId</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>This is an optional property. This purchase order (PO) information is for resellers to use for their company tracking usage. If a <code>purchaseOrderId</code> value is given it appears in the API responses and shows up in the invoice. The property accepts up to 80 plain text characters.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>status</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>This is an optional property.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>resourceUiUrl</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>URL to customer's Subscriptions page in the Admin console. The read-only URL is generated by the API service. This is used if your client application requires the customer to complete a task using the Subscriptions page in the Admin console.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>billingMethod</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Read-only field that returns the current billing method for a subscription.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>suspensionReasons[]</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Read-only field containing an enumerable of all the current suspension reasons for a subscription. It is possible for a subscription to have many concurrent, overlapping suspension reasons. A subscription's <code>STATUS</code> is <code>SUSPENDED</code> until all pending suspensions are removed.<br><br>Possible options include:</p><ul><li><code>PENDING_TOS_ACCEPTANCE</code> - The customer has not logged in and accepted the G Suite Resold Terms of Services.</li><li><code>RENEWAL_WITH_TYPE_CANCEL</code> - The customer's commitment ended and their service was cancelled at the end of their term.</li><li><code>RESELLER_INITIATED</code> - A manual suspension invoked by a Reseller.</li><li><code>TRIAL_ENDED</code> - The customer's trial expired without a plan selected.</li><li><code>OTHER</code> - The customer is suspended for an internal Google reason (e.g. abuse or otherwise).</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>customerDomain</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Primary domain name of the customer</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>dealCode</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Google-issued code (100 char max) for discounted pricing on subscription plans. Deal code must be included in <code>insert</code> requests in order to receive discounted rate. This property is optional, regular pricing applies if left empty.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>skuName</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Read-only external display name for a product's SKU assigned to a customer in the subscription. SKU names are subject to change at Google's discretion. For products and SKUs available in this version of the API, see <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/products">Product and SKU IDs</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>plan</code></td><td><p><code>object</code></p><p>The <code>plan</code> property is required. In this version of the API, the G Suite plans are the flexible plan, annual commitment plan, and the 30-day free trial plan. For more information about the API"s payment plans, see the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/concepts#plans">API concepts</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>plan.planName</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>The <code>planName</code> property is required. This is the name of the subscription's plan. For more information about the Google payment plans, see the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/concepts#plans">API concepts</a>.<br><br>Possible values are:</p><ul><li><code>ANNUAL_MONTHLY_PAY</code> — The annual commitment plan with monthly payments.</li><li><code>ANNUAL_YEARLY_PAY</code> — The annual commitment plan with yearly payments</li><li><code>FLEXIBLE</code> — The flexible plan</li><li><code>TRIAL</code> — The 30-day free trial plan. A subscription in trial will be suspended after the 30th free day if no payment plan is assigned. Calling <code>changePlan</code> will assign a payment plan to a trial but will not activate the plan. A trial will automatically begin its assigned payment plan after its 30th free day or immediately after calling <code>startPaidService</code>.</li><li><code>FREE</code> — The free plan is exclusive to the Cloud Identity SKU and does not incur any billing.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>plan.isCommitmentPlan</code></td><td><p><code>boolean</code></p><p>The <code>isCommitmentPlan</code> property's boolean value identifies the plan as an annual commitment plan:</p><ul><li><code>true</code> — The subscription's plan is an annual commitment plan.</li><li><code>false</code> — The plan is not an annual commitment plan.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>plan.commitmentInterval</code></td><td><p><code>object</code></p><p>In this version of the API, annual commitment plan's interval is one year.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>plan.commitmentInterval.startTime</code></td><td><p><code>string (int64 format)</code></p><p>An annual commitment plan's interval's <code>startTime</code> in milliseconds using UNIX Epoch format. See an example <a href="http://www.epochconverter.com/">Epoch converter</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>plan.commitmentInterval.endTime</code></td><td><p><code>string (int64 format)</code></p><p>An annual commitment plan's interval's <code>endTime</code> in milliseconds using the UNIX Epoch format. See an example <a href="http://www.epochconverter.com/">Epoch converter</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>trialSettings</code></td><td><p><code>object</code></p><p>The G Suite annual commitment and flexible payment plans can be in a 30-day free trial. For more information, see the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/concepts#plans">API concepts</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>trialSettings.isInTrial</code></td><td><p><code>boolean</code></p><p>Determines if a subscription's plan is in a 30-day free trial or not:</p><ul><li><code>true</code> — The plan is in trial.</li><li><code>false</code> — The plan is not in trial.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>trialSettings.trialEndTime</code></td><td><p><code>string (int64 format)</code></p><p>Date when the trial ends. The value is in milliseconds using the UNIX Epoch format. See an example <a href="http://www.epochconverter.com/">Epoch converter</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>transferInfo</code></td><td><p><code>object</code></p><p>Read-only transfer related information for the subscription. For more information, see <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/reseller/v1/how-tos/manage_subscriptions#get_transferable_subscriptions">retrieve transferable subscriptions for a customer</a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>transferInfo.transferabilityExpirationTime</code></td><td><p><code>string (int64 format)</code></p><p>The time when transfer token or intent to transfer will expire. The time is in milliseconds using UNIX Epoch format.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>transferInfo.minimumTransferableSeats</code></td><td><p><code>integer</code></p><p>When inserting a subscription, this is the minimum number of seats listed in the transfer order for this product. For example, if the customer has 20 users, the reseller cannot place a transfer order of 15 seats. The minimum is 20 seats.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>transferInfo.currentLegacySkuId</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>The <code>skuId</code> of the current resold subscription. This is populated only when the customer has a subscription with a legacy SKU and the subscription resource is populated with the <code>skuId</code> of the SKU recommended for the transfer.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Seats

JSON template for subscription seats.

JSON representation

```
{
  "numberOfSeats": integer,
  "maximumNumberOfSeats": integer,
  "licensedNumberOfSeats": integer,
  "kind": string
}
```

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>numberOfSeats</code></td><td><p><code>integer</code></p><p>This is a required property and is exclusive to subscriptions with <code>ANNUAL_MONTHLY_PAY</code> and <code>ANNUAL_YEARLY_PAY</code> plans. This property sets the maximum number of licenses assignable to users on a subscription. The reseller can add more licenses, but once set, the <code>numberOfSeats</code> cannot be reduced until renewal. The reseller is invoiced based on the <code>numberOfSeats</code> value regardless of how many of these user licenses are assigned.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>maximumNumberOfSeats</code></td><td><p><code>integer</code></p><p>This is a required property and is exclusive to subscriptions with <code>FLEXIBLE</code> or <code>TRIAL</code> plans. This property sets the maximum number of licensed users allowed on a subscription. This quantity can be increased up to the maximum limit defined in the reseller's contract. The minimum quantity is the current number of users in the customer account.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>licensedNumberOfSeats</code></td><td><p><code>integer</code></p><p>Read-only field containing the current number of users that are assigned a license for the product defined in <code>skuId</code>. This field's value is equivalent to the numerical count of users returned by the Enterprise License Manager API method: <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/admin/licensing/v1/reference/licenseAssignments/listForProductAndSku"><code>listForProductAndSku</code></a>.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>kind</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Identifies the resource as a subscription seat setting. Value: <code>subscriptions#seats</code></p></td></tr></tbody></table>

## RenewalSettings

JSON template for a subscription renewal settings.

JSON representation

```
{
  "renewalType": string,
  "kind": string
}
```

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2">Fields</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>renewalType</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Renewal settings for the annual commitment plan. For more detailed information, see renewal options in the <a href="https://support.google.com/a/bin/answer.py?topic=1247359&ctx=topic&answer=2500693">administrator help center</a>. When renewing a subscription, the <code>renewalType</code> is a required property.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>kind</code></td><td><p><code>string</code></p><p>Identifies the resource as a subscription renewal setting. Value: <code>subscriptions#renewalSettings</code></p></td></tr></tbody></table>

<table><colgroup><col width="25%"> <col></colgroup><thead><tr><th colspan="2"><h2>Methods</h2></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><h3>activate</h3></td><td>Activates a subscription previously suspended by the reseller.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>changePlan</h3></td><td>Updates a subscription plan.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>changeRenewalSettings</h3></td><td>Updates a user license's renewal settings.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>changeSeats</h3></td><td>Updates a subscription's user license settings.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>delete</h3></td><td>Cancels, suspends, or transfers a subscription to direct.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>get</h3></td><td>Gets a specific subscription.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>insert</h3></td><td>Creates or transfer a subscription.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>list</h3></td><td>Lists of subscriptions managed by the reseller.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>startPaidService</h3></td><td>Immediately move a 30-day free trial subscription to a paid service subscription.</td></tr><tr><td><h3>suspend</h3></td><td>Suspends an active subscription.</td></tr></tbody></table>
