---
source: https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/debugging-dynamic-email
root: workspace
fetched_at: 2026-04-23T15:28:48.201Z
---

# Debug Dynamic Emails

Gmail provides features to debug common issues with dynamic emails.

## Enable the Fallback Debugging Banner in Gmail Web

Developers can enable a debugging banner to determine why their emails aren't rendering as AMP emails. The banner informs you that the AMP part of your email isn't being rendered and provides a reason why. More information on each of the reasons can be found in the following section.

In order to enable the debugging banner for a specific email, you must whitelist the sender's address in your developer settings and then refresh the page. Refer to [Test your AMP emails in Gmail](https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/testing-dynamic-email) for more information.

## Fallback Reasons

These are some of the common reasons that dynamic emails fail to render and instead fall back to the to basic text or HTML.

<table><tbody><tr><th colspan="2">Fallback Reasons</th></tr><tr><td><code>ACCOUNT_TYPE</code></td><td>Dynamic emails aren't supported by your account type. Try using a new test Gmail account to view the email.</td></tr><tr><td><code>AUTH_FAILED</code></td><td>The email failed one of the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/security-requirements#sender_authentication">authentication requirements</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>AUTO_FORWARDED</code></td><td>The email was <a href="https://support.google.com/mail/answer/10957">automatically forwarded</a> from a different account. For emails to render AMP content, make sure you open the email with the account it was sent to.</td></tr><tr><td><code>BROWSER_ERROR</code></td><td>Something unexpected happened. Ensure you're using one of the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/supported-browsers">supported browsers</a> and try again.</td></tr><tr><td><code>DKIM_FAILED</code></td><td>The email failed Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) authentication. See the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/security-requirements#sender_authentication">authentication requirements</a> for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><code>DKIM_NOT_MATCHING_FROM</code></td><td>The email failed Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/security-requirements#dkim_alignment">alignment</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>DYNAMIC_EMAIL_DISABLED</code></td><td>Dynamic emails are disabled. Ensure that <b>Dynamic email</b> has been enabled in the Gmail settings panel.</td></tr><tr><td><code>HIDING_IMAGES</code></td><td>The <b>Always display external images</b> setting is disabled. Re-enable this setting in the settings panel and refresh the page.</td></tr><tr><td><code>INTERNAL_ERROR</code></td><td>Something unexpected happened in Gmail.</td></tr><tr><td><code>INVALID_AMP</code></td><td>The AMP was invalid. See the AMP for Email spec for more information and follow the <a href="https://amp.dev/documentation/guides-and-tutorials/learn/validation-workflow/validate_emails/?format=email">steps to validate an AMP email</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>MALFORMED</code></td><td>The email contains more than one <code>text/x-amp-html</code> part or no fallback <code>text/html</code> or <code>text/plain</code> part. See <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/testing-dynamic-email#delivery_requirements">the delivery requirements</a> for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><code>MESSAGE_CLIPPED</code></td><td>The email's <code>text/x-amp-html</code> part is too long. See the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/testing-dynamic-email">delivery requirements</a> for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><code>NOT_AVAILABLE_ON_PLATFORM</code></td><td>The sender has disabled dynamic content on this platform. If you are using the web client, try viewing the email on mobile.</td></tr><tr><td><code>NOT_MAIN_WINDOW</code></td><td>The email was opened in a new window. Try opening this email in the main Gmail window.</td></tr><tr><td><code>OFFLINE</code></td><td>The client is offline. Check your internet connection and try again.</td></tr><tr><td><code>OLD_EMAIL</code></td><td>The email was sent over 30 days ago.</td></tr><tr><td><code>PHISHY</code></td><td>The email was marked as phishing. Ensure that your email follows the <a href="https://support.google.com/mail/answer/81126">security requirements and email best practices</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>REFRESH_REQUIRED</code></td><td>The client needs to be refreshed. If you're using the web client and haven't enabled offline mode, refresh the page normally. If you have enabled offline mode, a hard refresh is required. If you're using a mobile app, try clearing app data and relaunching the app.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SPAM</code></td><td>The email was marked as spam. Ensure that your email follows the <a href="https://support.google.com/mail/answer/81126">security requirements and email best practices</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SPF_FAILED</code></td><td>The email failed Sender Policy Framework (SPF) authentication. See the <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/security-requirements#sender_authentication">authentication requirements</a> for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><code>SUSPICIOUS</code></td><td>The email seems suspicious. Ensure that your email follows the <a href="https://support.google.com/mail/answer/81126">security requirements and email best practices</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>THREAD_TOO_LONG</code></td><td>The reply chain has become too long. Dynamic content is only rendered for the last 10 messages in a thread.</td></tr><tr><td><code>TIMEOUT</code></td><td>The dynamic content took too long to load. Check your internet connection and try again.</td></tr><tr><td><code>TLS_ENCRYPTION</code></td><td>The email wasn't TLS encrypted. See <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/security-requirements#tls_encryption">the TLS security requirement</a> for more information and resend the email with TLS.</td></tr><tr><td><code>TRANSLATED</code></td><td>Translation is enabled for the email. Disable automatic translation in Gmail and try again.</td></tr><tr><td><code>WRONG_VERSION</code></td><td>Dynamic content isn't supported on your device. See the list of <a href="https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/ampemail/supported-browsers">supported browsers</a> for more information.</td></tr></tbody></table>
