---
source: https://developers.google.com/apps-script/terms
root: apps-script
fetched_at: 2026-04-23T15:22:26.197Z
---

# Google Apps Script Additional Terms

By using Google Apps Script ("the Service"), you agree to these terms, in addition to the [Google APIs Terms of Service](https://developers.google.com/terms) and the [Google API Services: User Data Policy](https://developers.google.com/terms/api-services-user-data-policy).

## Using Google Apps Script to Create Scripts and Add-ons

The Service permits you to create scripts and add-ons for use by end users ("Scripts"). You may also choose to include content provided or generated by you as part of your Script. Google claims no ownership over any Script. You retain copyright and any other rights, including all intellectual property rights, you hold in the Script. You are responsible for protecting and enforcing those rights and Google has no obligation to do so on your behalf.

When developing Scripts utilizing any Google API, you must abide by the applicable terms of any Google API used in your Script (collectively, the "Google API Terms"). If there is any contradiction between what the Google Apps Script Additional Terms say and what the Google API Terms say, then the Google API Terms shall take precedence only as relates to the applicable Script, and not to any other part of the Service.

By choosing to make your Script accessible to other users, you grant Google a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual license to to reproduce the Script; to create and reproduce derivative works of the Script; to display publicly and distribute copies of the Script; to display publicly and distribute copies of derivative works of the Script to the full extent that you have made the Script available to other users. If you have chosen to make your Script accessible to other users then later choose to revoke that access, Google has no responsibility for ensuring that the users previously granted access no longer use your Script and Google's license continues for those users.

You are solely responsible for any Script that you create. Google is not in any way responsible for the use or misuse of your Script by any third party, including end users. By using the Service to develop and deploy a Script, you agree that Google may provide your contact information to any end user installing the Script or otherwise authorizing use of the Script.

You will use the Service only as permitted by law (including without limitation laws regarding the import or export of data or software, privacy, or local laws). You will not use the Service to encourage or promote illegal activity. You will not knowingly enable end users of your Script to violate applicable law or these terms.

You will only access (or attempt to access) the Service by the means described in the documentation. If Google assigns you developer credentials, you must use them with the Service. You will not misrepresent or mask either your identity or your Script's identity when using the Service or developer accounts.

Google may set limits on the number of requests that you can make using the Service, at its sole discretion. You agree to such limitations and will not attempt to circumvent such limitations.

Google may monitor the use of the Service to ensure quality, improve Google products and services, and verify your compliance with these terms. You will not interfere with such monitoring. Google may use any technical means to overcome such interference.

Google reserves the right to investigate any Script for compliance with these terms. Such investigations may include Google accessing and using your Script, for example to identify security issues that could affect Google or its users. You consent to any such investigation. Google may suspend access to the Service or our APIs by you or your Script without notice if we reasonably believe that you are in violation of these terms.

You agree that we may send you certain communications in connection with your use of the Service. Please review the applicable documentation for information about opting out of certain types of communication.

If you provide feedback or suggestions about the Service, then we may use such information without obligation to you.

## Add-ons

If you use Scripts to create and publish [add-ons](../workspace/add-ons/overview.md) (“Add-ons”) in the Add-ons store, you agree to the [Chrome Web Store Terms of Service](https://developers.google.com/chrome/web-store/terms).

You must ensure the Add-on is operational and functions in accordance with the description of the Add-on. An Add-on must have a single purpose that is narrow and easy-to-understand. Do not create an Add-on that requires users to accept bundles of unrelated functionality. If two pieces of functionality are clearly separate, they should be put into two different Add-ons, and users should have the ability to install and uninstall them separately.

Our [Program Policies](https://support.google.com/drive/answer/148505) apply to your Add-on's content and any user generated content it hosts or links to. Further, our [Program Policies](https://support.google.com/drive/answer/148505) apply to any content from your developer account that is publicly displayed in the Add-ons store, including your developer name and the landing page of your listed developer website. Note that you must also abide by the [User Interface Guidelines](../workspace/add-ons/guides/editor-style.md). If your Add-on does not comply with these Terms (including the [User Interface Guidelines](../workspace/add-ons/guides/editor-style.md) and [Program Policies](https://support.google.com/drive/answer/148505)) or is not used at least once in any six-month period, Google may remove the Add-on from the Add-on store and remotely disable or remove the Add-on from user systems or devices at its sole discretion.

Google does not allow the serving of ads within Add-ons (including any ads the Add-on hosts or links to).

## End Users Using Scripts or Add-ons

End Users may use and import Scripts or Add-ons created by third parties, including Google. Scripts and Add-ons are the sole responsibility of the entity that makes it available. Google makes no representations about the performance, quality, content, or continued availability of any Script or Add-on.

Google does not promise that any Script or Add-on will work for your purposes, or that it is free from viruses, bugs, or other defects. Scripts and Add-ons are provided "as is" and without warranty of any kind. Google provides no express warranties, guarantees and conditions with regard to the Scripts and Add-ons. To the extent permitted under applicable law, Google excludes the implied warranties and conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, workmanlike effort, title and non-infringement.

Scripts and Add-ons are subject to change at any time. Using or importing any Script or Add-ons is at your own risk. You should only run the script if you trust the developer of the Script or Add-on, as you are solely responsible for any compromise or loss of data that may result from using this Script or Add-on.
